2016-09-29_15:01:33_-0700_PDT
# CRON_Log_Parsing [working title]

Recently, as part of our daily routine of preparing for SRE interview
questions, Guillaume started sending us a packet of exercises. One of
the exercises was particularly interesting to me. I liked this
question because it illustrates the importance of good thought process.

The exercise is as follows:

```
By using this cron log:
https://s3.amazonaws.com/holbertonintranet/files/sandbox/cron

Provide the list of all cron commands with the delay ("The cron task
'Holberton' is executed each 50 seconds")
```
Good thought process, in my opinion, is being aware of the assumptions
you are making when interpreting a problem, if any. In an interview
setting, these assumptions generate clarifying questions.

This problem jumped out at me because the first assumption I made was
pretty ugly. As part of my strategy to make sure I don't overlook any
special cases (and also for maximizing the learning I get from each
problem), I like to imagine the worst of a problem before breaking it
down into smaller chunks (or looking inside the log itself, in this
case.)  So, I pretended that this is a very complex server for a
ficticious developer team, with thousands of jobs being run by CRON
and many unique commands. No one individual really knows what this
server does, but everyone relies on it to run their command at a set
frequency.

Just by thinking of this, it occurred to me that this problem must not
have a solution. Or, at least, not a unique solution.

### The clarifying question

The clarifying question that jumped at me was as follows: "Can I
assume that each command is run by exactly one CRON job?"

In other words, are there two people on the team that are unknowingly
running the same command, perhaps with different delays?

Since Guillaume is not generally in the habit of asking trick
questions (like Julien is) I found it safe to assume, at this point,
that we are not expected to handle this complication. But I'm happy to
have thought of it because I'll be aware of this limitation in my
solution, and I will also be able to talk intelligently about this as
a possible extension to the problem. If this were an interview, I'd
make sure to ask the clarifying question. For now, let's just write
down our assumption:

### Assumption 1: each unique command is run by one and only one CRON
    job.

The structure of the problem is now clearer, and our task is
simplified.

First, I decided to count how many unique CRON commands there are in
this particular log file, and print it. Also, I decided to count how many CRON
commands there are in total just in case I need to make a sanity check
later on.

The lines on the log file look like this:
```
Sep 21 17:30:01 ip-172-31-27-229 CROND[_some number_]: (root) CMD
_some command here_
```

```
uniqueCmdCount: 10
count by CROND: 1999
```

Okay, not bad, so there are only 10 CRON jobs at this point.